COVID-19
Seven in 10 security vulnerabilities affecting industrial control systems (ICS) can be exploited remotely, giving state-
sponsored malicious actors a leg up. The risk has been exacerbated by the increased reliance on remote access to ICS
networks amid the COVID-19 pandemic. State-sponsored malicious threat actors have been using remotely-exploitable flaws
to disrupt critical systems in rival nations.
(August 21, 2020)

The COVID-19 pandemic shows little sign of slowing down, but for many businesses, employees are still working remotely
and from home offices. While some companies are gearing towards reopening their standard office spaces in the coming
months, they may also be facing repercussions of the rapid shift to remote working models in the cybersecurity space. 
(August 20, 2020)

Hackers had locked down several servers used by the epidemiology and biostatistics department at the University of
California at San Francisco and wanted a $3 million ransom to give them the keys. The UCSF negotiator said the attack
couldn’t have come at a worse time. The department was racing to try to help develop some kind of treatment or vaccine
for COVID-19.
(August 19, 2020)

Verizon recently released an update to its 2020 Verizon Data Breach Investigations Report examining the impact of the
COVID-19 pandemic on cybersecurity. The report found out increased security vulnerabilities and the emergence of new
cyberattack tactics associated with the new reliance on remote workers. Now, many industries are moving to have their
employees working almost exclusively online.
(August 18, 2020)

During the COVID-19 pandemic, risks to the healthcare industry’s fragile cybersecurity infrastructure are at an all-time
high. From increased cyberattacks to exacerbated vulnerabilities to costly human errors, if healthcare cybersecurity
wasn’t circling the drain before, COVID-19 sent it into a tailspin.
(August 18, 2020)

Interpol has issued a warning about the rising levels of cybercriminal activity related to the COVID- 19 pandemic.
Phishing attacks purporting to share information about any eagerly awaited COVID-19 vaccine will be launched long before
it might ever become available. From January through April, roughly 907,000 spam messages, 737 incidents related to
malware, and 48,000 malicious URLs have been tracked, which have some connection to COVID-19.
(August 17, 2020)

According to the statement released by the Office of the Chief Information Officer of the Government of Canada, Canadian
government sites, that are used to provide access to crucial services for immigration, pension, and benefits, have been
breached in a coordinated attack to steal COVID-19 relief payments. Their GCKey system had also experienced a
cyberattack. Using the "credential stuffing" technique, attackers managed to get into some 9,041 GCKey accounts of the
total 12 million users.
(August 16, 2020)

Amid COVID-19, hackers have presented opportunities on multiple fronts. They play on people’s concerns about the virus
by presenting phishing schemes or malware disguised in fake Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) alerts that
talk about the latest vaccine or treatment developments. Hackers quickly used the pandemic and related anxiety to lure
people into phishing schemes and malware attacks.
(August 14, 2020)

Researchers at Check Point Software Technologies have seen 192,000 coronavirus-related cyber-attacks per week over the
past three weeks, a 30 percent increase compared to previous weeks. In the past three weeks, almost 20,000 new
coronavirus-related domains were registered, about 17 percent of which are malicious or suspicious. So far, since the
beginning of the outbreak, a total of 90,284 new corona related domains have been registered globally.
(August 13, 2020)

NHS staff were hit with a wave of malicious email attacks at the height of the COVID-19 pandemic, with doctors, nurses,
and other key workers reporting over 40,000 spam and phishing attacks between March and the first half of July. It is
revealed that NHS staff reported 21,188 malicious emails in March alone. In April, 8,085 emails were reported by staff,
with 5,883 emails reported in May, 6,468 in June and 1,484 in the first half of July.
(August 12, 2020)

The Department of Homeland Security’s cyber agency warned that a ‘malicious cyber actor’ is targeting a Small Business
Administration (SBA) webpage used to funnel loans to businesses during the COVID-19 pandemic. An unknown malicious cyber
actor is found to be spoofing the Small Business Administration (SBA) COVID-19 loan relief webpage via phishing emails.
These emails include a malicious link to the spoofed SBA website that the cyber actor is using for malicious redirects
and credential stealing.
(August 11, 2020)

Threat actors and hackers have been closely following the pandemic’s development globally. In the race for a vaccine, a
double number of vaccine-related new coronavirus domains have been observed between June and July. In fact, 1 out of
every 25 malicious coronavirus-related websites’ landing pages is vaccine-related. Cybercriminals are planning to take
advantage of the latest developments.
(August 11, 2020)

Work from home (WFH) brings many benefits to organizations, but it creates risks by virtually inviting cyberattacks
along multiple vectors. To stay protected, organizations should equip users to work securely from home, enable MFA as
broadly as possible, and close the privileged attack vectors. Businesses around the world need to act towards ensuring
security, by deploying security mechanisms such as MFA and through more comprehensive security program governance.
(August 11, 2020)

There are four lessons that can be distilled to help protect hospitals and healthcare divisions from COVID-19-themed
cyber attacks. One of the most crucial lessons learned is inventory automation, i.e. knowing where each medical device
was and its availability through the first surge. Second is prioritizing security to ensure that the automated inventory
process is working smoothly. The third is implementing remediation and last is measuring the utilization of network
resources.
(August 10, 2020)

As Netflix subscriber numbers rose by 10 million during the coronavirus lockdown months, so did the security threats. An
alarming rise has been observed in the number of web addresses that have been explicitly registered so that
cybercriminals can target Netflix users. A massive rise in phishing URLs targeting Netflix of 646% showed attackers are
looking to capitalize on Netflix's growth.
(August 9, 2020)

